FR #962: Add Correction Handling and Delivery Handling attributes and refactor Invoice Handling (#1501)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/attributes/invoice_handling.md

FinOps practitioners must be able to reconcile FOCUS datasets with the corresponding invoices and usage statements they receive from [*Invoice Issuers*](#glossary:InvoiceIssuer). In practice, this means ensuring that all monetary [*charges*](#glossary:charge) that appear on an invoice or usage statement — including those not tied to metered usage — are represented in the [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset). Without this alignment, it becomes difficult to perform accurate invoice reconciliation, financial reporting, and chargeback.

This attribute introduces requirements for how charges such as usage, taxes, credits, refunds, etc, inclusive of support, training, and marketplace transactions, and any other type of charge should be captured and categorized. It also defines expectations around the completeness and consistency of invoice-level totals within the dataset, enabling FOCUS datasets to be used in a system of record for all invoiced costs.

## Attribute ID

InvoiceHandling

## Attribute Name

Invoice Handling

## Description

Indicates how invoice-level *charges*, including those not directly tied to usage, should be represented in a FOCUS dataset.

## Requirements

> * All costs that appear on any invoice issued to a [*BillingAccountId*](#datasets.costandusage.billingaccountid) MUST be included in the *FOCUS dataset*.

Author: I think I'm in support of us making this downgrade, but @ijurica, I'd like you to confirm that you're comfortable with this point Gemini makes.

There may be a world where we add a normative requirement to the Invoice Detail dataset, with something like, "Any cost that appears on an invoice must be included as a custom column in Invoice Detail".

### Silent Downgrade of Normative Requirements
By deleting `specification/attributes/invoice_handling.md` and moving the concepts to `specification/appendix/invoice_and_billing_period_handling.md`, you are fundamentally changing the strictness of the spec:
* **Old (Normative):** "All costs that appear on any invoice... MUST be included in the FOCUS dataset" and data generators "MUST include provider-defined columns..."
* **New (Informative/Appendix):** Billed Costs are merely "expected to match the payable amounts". 
* **The Issue:** Appendices in technical specifications are generally informative, not normative. By removing the `InvoiceHandling` attribute, you are entirely dropping the strict, auditable `MUST` requirements that force providers to ensure their data perfectly balances with the invoice. If that downgrade is intentional, it’s fine, but it’s a major functional change to the standard.

Reviewer: Thanks — this is a fair point, and I’ve considered the implication of moving these requirements out of the Attributes section.

This is not intended to be a full downgrade of normative requirements, but rather a restructuring of where those requirements are defined and enforced.

1. As originally planned, this PR introduces the missing CostAndUsage-level requirement, and there is already a similar normative requirement in the `InvoiceDetailGrain` column:

   > - CostAndUsage MUST include custom columns (e.g., x_ChargeSubType) needed to support invoice reconciliation when FOCUS columns are not sufficient.
   > - InvoiceDetailGrain MUST include all custom Invoice Detail Grain properties that are applicable to the granularity of the invoice line item when there is no equivalent FOCUS-defined property.

2. We’ve also discussed and merged the `InvoiceDetail.BilledCost` requirements, including cross-dataset alignment with `CostAndUsage.BilledCost` (via the tolerance formula), which preserves the expectation of reconciliation between datasets and between InvoiceDetail and invoice (CostandUsage.BilledCost is still WIP)

3. Rather than keeping these requirements in a standalone attribute, they have been redistributed to the relevant datasets and columns

So while the dedicated “InvoiceHandling” attribute has been removed and some explanatory content moved to the appendix, the normative requirements themselves have not been dropped — they’ve been made more explicit at the dataset/column level instead.

Author: @ijurica 
I understand (and fully agree with) the structural reorg.  That's not in question.

At issue here is this: we used to say, "All costs that appear on any invoice... MUST be included in the FOCUS dataset", and we are now _only_ talking about BilledCost.  If they put "EffectiveCost", "NetBilledCost" or some other special flavor of cost on their invoice, we no longer require them to put it in the relevant FOCUS dataset (e.g., InvoiceDetail).

Do you think it is worth adding such a line as a normative requirement in InvoiceDetail to keep functional parity with the InvoiceHandling attribute, even though it would be dynamic?

Reviewer: I’ve actually been thinking along the same lines. This is what prompted my question in the last TF-1 about custom properties in the InvoiceDetailGrain column.

My assumption was that any additional InvoiceDetail requirement would likely go in the direction of requiring custom columns for missing **metrics**, potentially even limiting that to **summable metrics**, depending on whether things like unit prices qualify as properties applicable to the granularity covered by `InvoiceDetailGrain` (i.e., `InvoiceDetailGrain MUST include all custom Invoice Detail Grain properties that are applicable to the granularity of the invoice line item when there is no equivalent FOCUS-defined property`).

That said, I didn’t fully elaborate on this during the meeting because I realized midway that it might be better to **first align on cross-dataset examples**, and then decide on the **preferred approach** before introducing additional requirements.

For example:

- If we require these as custom columns, we lose the ability to define validation requirements around their accuracy.
- If instead we require something like EffectiveCost to be included in InvoiceDetail as a conditional column (e.g., when present on the invoice), we could also introduce corresponding validation rules.

So I’d lean toward **cross-dataset examples first**, and additional requirements (especially dynamic ones) second.

---

BTW, the InvoiceDetail dataset was just introduced, so even though the original requirements referred to FOCUS datasets, there is no breaking change.

Author: Spent a bit of time after TF-1 thinking about this.  

I hear your argument.  However, I still do think that removing this requirement introduces a functional gap: it inadvertently changes our approach from an 'invoice completeness mandate' to a strict 'BilledCost reconciliation mandate.' Without a catch-all, providers can now legally drop non-reconciling, supplementary invoice data (like some proprietary version of BilledCost, or a summed Discount amount, or whatever) from their FOCUS datasets entirely.

Therefore, here's what I propose we add to InvoiceDetail:

> * InvoiceDetail MUST include custom columns to represent any cost or monetary metric that appears on an invoice issued to a [*BillingAccountId*](#datasets.invoicedetail.billingaccountid) when there is no equivalent FOCUS-defined column.

Since the original rule was written before InvoiceDetail even existed, moving this catch-all requirement there respects your structural reorganization while also maintaining the original spirit of the cut requirement -- ensuring the dataset fully mirrors the invoice.

If we don't do this, then I think we have a made a material change: we said you have to include all your costs in FOCUS, and now, if it's not tied to invoice reconciliation, you no longer have to.  I feel that is a step backwards.

Reviewer: @shawnalpay, what about this:

> * InvoiceDetail MUST include a custom column (e.g., x_PricingQuantity) to represent any metric that appears on an invoice issued to a BillingAccountId when there is no equivalent FOCUS column.

That's included in the updated version.

"cost or monetary" felt a bit redundant and I wanted to account for both cost and quantity metrics. 

I'm not sure what we should do about unit prices (whether InvoiceDetailGrain properties account for those) so I [proposed](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1501/files#r2991435653) the alternative as well:

> * InvoiceDetail MUST include a custom column (e.g., x_PricingQuantity) to represent any cost or quantity metric that appears on an invoice issued to a BillingAccountId when there is no equivalent FOCUS column.

Author: @ijurica 
The original scope of normative requirement was quite specific about "costs".  

"Cost or monetary" is not duplicative.  A unit price is monetary, but it is not precisely a cost.  I think the intent of the original requirement was inclusive of unit prices, but I could be convinced otherwise that we should only include costs, not unit prices.

Regardless:

> I wanted to account for both cost and quantity metrics.

I hear you, but I would really like us to avoid expanding scope by including _everything_, or even _all metrics_.  I would like this decision to be as defensible as possible, and thus I would like to keep it grounded in costs the way it was before.

Reviewer: attaching the original:

> * If an invoice-level charge appears on a customer invoice but cannot be expressed using existing FOCUS columns, data generators MUST include provider-defined columns (e.g., x_ChargeSubType) to capture the non-FOCUS-defined details needed to support invoice charges reconciliation using the FOCUS dataset.

I'm happy to change to "cost or monetary" if you feel that's the best option, but just noting:
* the original InvoiceHandling requirement doesn't seem to exclude quantities
* and assuming monetary covers cost, "cost or monetary" feels redundant to me

Reviewer: updated. 

attaching latest version:

* InvoiceDetail MUST include custom columns to represent any cost or monetary metric that appears on an invoice issued to a BillingAccountId when there is no equivalent FOCUS column.

Note: FOCUS column glossary entry should be merged via #1800

Author: Okay, you've convinced me that "monetary" would be sufficient.  I'm good with that.

Left a suggestion [here](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1501/files#r2992036730) to do that.  I'm good to resolve this thread whenever you are, unless you think there's something else to discuss.

Reviewer: resolving

> # Invoice Handling

Reviewer: Invoice Handling is WIP.
Please hold feedback for now.

Author: Now ready for feedback.  Resolving.

FinOps practitioners must be able to reconcile *FOCUS datasets* with the corresponding invoices and usage statements they receive from [*invoice issuers*](#invoiceissuername). In practice, this means ensuring that all *charges* that appear on an invoice or usage statement — including those not tied to metered usage — are represented in a *FOCUS dataset*. Without this alignment, it becomes difficult to perform accurate [*invoice reconciliation*](#glossary:invoice-reconciliation), financial reporting, and chargeback.

### Invoice Reconciliation and Issuance

Prior to [*invoice issuance*](#glossary:issued-invoice), the invoice must undergo a reconciliation process.  In this process, the *invoice issuer* ensures that the aggregated cost and usage information presented on the *invoice* matches the detailed cost and usage *charges* presented in a *FOCUS dataset*.

> At the conclusion of this process, the total monetary value presented on an invoice must match the total monetary value presented in the [*Billed Cost*](#billedcost) metric of a FOCUS dataset.  Further, the detail presented on an invoice must match the values of Billed Cost when aggregated by the related combination of the following FOCUS dataset dimensions:

Reviewer: Editorial:

```suggestion
At the conclusion of this process, the total monetary value presented on an invoice must match the total monetary value presented in the [Billed Cost](#billedcost) metric of a FOCUS dataset.  Further, the detail presented on an invoice must match the values of Billed Cost when aggregated by the related combination of the following FOCUS dataset dimensions:
```

* [*Billing Account ID*](#billingaccountid)
* [*Billing Currency*](#billingcurrency)
* [*Billing Period Start*](#billingperiodstart)
* [*Billing Period End*](#billingperiodend)
* [*Invoice ID*](#invoiceid)

> * [*Invoice Issuer Name*](#invoiceissuername)

Reviewer: Editorial:

```suggestion
* [Billing Account ID](#billingaccountid)
* [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency)
* [Billing Period Start](#billingperiodstart)
* [Billing Period End](#billingperiodend)
* [Invoice ID](#invoiceid)
* [Invoice Issuer Name](#invoiceissuername)
```

## Description

Defines how a *FOCUS dataset* should reflect details for the information presented on an *invoice*.

> ## Requirements

Reviewer: As already mentioned in several comments on PR #1900, we have not yet made a final decision on whether dataset-specific and column-specific normative requirements should be specified within attributes that address a particular business context (e.g., Invoice Handling, Discount Handling, etc.), or whether attributes should contain only normative requirements that apply across more than one FOCUS dataset and/or more than one column. 

***Note:** The criteria for attribute-level requirements outlined as one of the Discussion Topics in FR #1059 (addressed in the corresponding PRs #1967 and #1981)*

If we decide that attribute-level requirements should include only rules applicable to multiple datasets or columns, and at the same time respect the DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) principle, then this attribute would retain only the two requirements applicable to both InvoiceDetail and CostAndUsage datasets, while all other requirements would be relocated to the corresponding datasets or columns.

Given that Invoice Handling currently describes behavior of the BillingPeriod dataset in the introduction, it seems preferable to also relocate these two remaining normative requirements to the InvoiceDetail and CostAndUsage dataset requirements, and treat **Invoice Handling not as an attribute, but rather as an appendix**.

Author: Upon discussion with @ijurica, I agree that this should be become an appendix.  All the normative requirements can be safely integrated into dataset and column levels.  There is not enough overlap across datasets to justify retaining it as an attribute.

Reviewer 2: Agreed. Invoice Handling as an appendix makes sense. There isn't enough cross-dataset overlap to justify attribute status, and redistributing the normative requirements to dataset and column levels is cleaner.
I expect this also simplifies coordination with PR #1900, since the requirements will land where they're actually enforced, though I may be oversimplifying the activities in front of us.

Reviewer: Additional context is provided in [this comment](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1501#issuecomment-3915514870).

Resolving this thread.

InvoiceHandling MUST adhere to the following requirements:

> * *FOCUS dataset* MUST account for all monetary line items included on any invoice issued to a BillingAccountId.

Author: Should this be BilledCost <> 0?  "Monetary line items" feels vague.

Author: @Matt-Cowsert How should we integrate this into PR #1900, if at all?  Now that we have InvoiceDetail, how can we be more specific?

Reviewer 2: +1 on replacing "monetary line items" with BilledCost <> 0. It's testable and removes ambiguity.

For integration into #1900: the BilledCost matching requirements from this PR should land at the dataset level in #1900 once we complete the appendix migration.

Reviewer 2: On scope: I'd start with applying to the CostAndUsage dataset first. That's where custom columns live today, and it's where InvoiceId already exists. Putting the normative requirement there gives it a single source of truth.

If we later need it to be normative in both places, we can add it, but starting with one location avoids repeating ourselves as @ijurica flagged. Happy to sync on the specifics.

Reviewer: Additional context is provided in [this comment](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1501#issuecomment-3915514870).

Resolving this thread.

> * *FOCUS dataset* MAY omit informational line items with zero monetary impact included on invoice only for transparency (e.g., tax exemption notifications, SLA credit details when the credit is already applied to the charged amount).

Author: @ijurica Need to add the exception about, if these exclusions happen, must be documented.

Author: Should likely restate this to be more specific.  Change "zero monetary impact" to [BilledCost] = 0?

Author: @Matt-Cowsert As the original author, @ijurica needs to sync with you on how to 1) rephrase this requirement to be more specific, and 2) whether to apply this to Cost and Usage, Invoice Detail, or both.

Reviewer: Resolving in favor of [this thread](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1900/files#r2824947309) in PR #1900

> * InvoiceDetail *FOCUS dataset* MUST have its invoice reconciliation process documented and accessible to practitioners, including a list of columns from both CostAndUsage and InvoiceDetail FOCUS datasets used in reconciliation.

Author: @ijurica to leave this as a suggestion for PR #1900.

Reviewer: Additional context is provided in [this comment](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1501#issuecomment-3915514870).

Resolving this thread.

> * CostAndUsage *FOCUS dataset* MUST include Custom columns (e.g., x_ChargeSubType) needed to support invoice reconciliation when FOCUS columns are not sufficient.

Author: This requirement could either move to the Cost and Usage dataset level, or the Invoice Detail Grain column level within Invoice Detail.

@mike-finopsorg What do you think?  Let's discuss in the next TF-RM.

Reviewer 3: If we believe InvoiceId and InvoiceDetailId is enough for CostAndUsage and the additional data is only needed in the Invoice Detail Grain column. Then moving to Invoice Detail Grain sounds right. 

If data in Invoice Detail Grain column is not enough and we expect that CostAndUsage dataset needs custom columns still, in this situation then a separate rule in the CostAndUsage dataset is needed.

Reviewer: Moving this discussion (including the related requirement) to PR #1900 — see [this thread](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1900/files#r2819044798)

Further discussion will continue there.

Resolving this thread.

* CostAndUsage.BillingPeriodEnd for a given CostAndUsage.InvoiceId and CostAndUsage.InvoiceIssuerName MUST match InvoiceDetail.BillingPeriodEnd for the same InvoiceDetail.InvoiceId and InvoiceDetail.InvoiceIssuerName.
* The sum of InvoiceDetail.BilledCost for a given InvoiceDetail.InvoiceDetailId, InvoiceDetail.InvoiceId, and InvoiceDetail.InvoiceIssuerName MUST match the payable amount provided in the corresponding invoice line items when InvoiceDetail.InvoiceStatus is "Closed".
* The sum of InvoiceDetail.BilledCost for a given InvoiceDetail.InvoiceDetailId, InvoiceDetail.InvoiceId, and InvoiceDetail.InvoiceIssuerName MUST match the sum of CostAndUsage.BilledCost for the same CostAndUsage.InvoiceDetailId, CostAndUsage.InvoiceId, and CostAndUsage.InvoiceIssuerName when InvoiceDetail.InvoiceStatus is "Closed".
* The sum of InvoiceDetail.BilledCost for a given InvoiceDetail.InvoiceDetailId, InvoiceDetail.InvoiceId, and InvoiceDetail.InvoiceIssuerName MAY differ from the sum of CostAndUsage.BilledCost for the same CostAndUsage.InvoiceDetailId, CostAndUsage.InvoiceId, and CostAndUsage.InvoiceIssuerName when InvoiceDetail.InvoiceStatus is "Open".

> * [InvoiceDetail.InvoiceDetailCreated](#datasets.invoicedetail.invoicedetailcreated) for the given InvoiceDetail.BillingPeriodStart and InvoiceDetail.InvoiceIssuerName MUST be earlier than or equal to [BillingPeriod.BillingPeriodLastUpdated](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodlastupdated) for the same BillingPeriod.BillingPeriodStart and BillingPeriod.InvoiceIssuerName when [BillingPeriod.BillingPeriodStatus](#datasets.billingperiod.billingperiodstatus) is "Closed".

Reviewer: Consider relocating to the `InvoiceDetail.InvoiceDetailCreated` column

coordinate with the resolution of [this comment](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1900/files#r2813368478) in PR #1900 

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Additional context is provided in [this comment](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1501#issuecomment-3915514870).

Resolving this thread.

## Description

Defines how a *FOCUS dataset* should reflect details for the information presented on an *invoice*.

## Requirements

InvoiceHandling MUST adhere to the following requirements:

* *FOCUS dataset* MUST account for all monetary line items included on any invoice issued to a BillingAccountId.
* *FOCUS dataset* MAY omit informational line items with zero monetary impact included on invoice only for transparency (e.g., tax exemption notifications, SLA credit details when the credit is already applied to the charged amount).
* InvoiceDetail *FOCUS dataset* MUST have its invoice reconciliation process documented and accessible to practitioners, including a list of columns from both CostAndUsage and InvoiceDetail FOCUS datasets used in reconciliation.
* CostAndUsage *FOCUS dataset* MUST include Custom columns (e.g., x_ChargeSubType) needed to support invoice reconciliation when FOCUS columns are not sufficient.
* CostAndUsage.BillingPeriodStart for a given CostAndUsage.InvoiceId and CostAndUsage.InvoiceIssuerName MUST match InvoiceDetail.BillingPeriodStart for the same InvoiceDetail.InvoiceId and InvoiceDetail.InvoiceIssuerName.

> * CostAndUsage.BillingPeriodEnd for a given CostAndUsage.InvoiceId and CostAndUsage.InvoiceIssuerName MUST match InvoiceDetail.BillingPeriodEnd for the same InvoiceDetail.InvoiceId and InvoiceDetail.InvoiceIssuerName.

Reviewer: Consider relocating to corresponding columns - `CostAndUsage.BillingPeriodStart` and `CostAndUsage.BillingPeriodEnd`

coordinate with the resolution of [this comment](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1900/files#r2813077311) in PR #1900 

```suggestion
```

* *Invoice reconciliation* adheres to the following additional requirements:
  * Invoice issuer MUST perform *Invoice reconciliation* between an *invoice* and its associated FOCUS *dataset artifacts* before issuing the invoice.
  * *Invoice reconciliation* process MUST include (but is not limited to) the following metric and dimensions: BilledCost, BillingCurrency, InvoiceId, InvoiceIssuerName, BillingAccountId, BillingPeriodStart, and BillingPeriodEnd.
  * Invoice issuer MUST document which FOCUS dataset columns are included in the *invoice reconciliation* process.
* The data generator MUST notify the customer if the contents of a *dataset artifact* associated with an *issued invoice* are altered after final delivery.
* The *billing period* (i.e., the timeframe from BillingPeriodStart to BillingPeriodEnd) of a charge MUST match the *billing period* of its associated [*InvoiceId*](#datasets.costandusage.invoiceid).

> ## Exceptions

Reviewer: discuss whether we need to introduce additional exceptions.

For example:

> * Exceptions to the restrictions on *issued invoices* and *closed billing periods* MAY apply in the following cases:
>   * Upon explicit request from the end-user (subject to validation and approval processes).
>   * Due to technical issues encountered during or after invoice issuance or billing period closure.

Reviewer: note: according to (upcoming) guidelines, if needed, exception must be introduced as a requirement.
resolving

## Description

Defines how a *FOCUS dataset* should reflect details for the information presented on an *invoice*.

## Requirements

> * All costs that appear on any invoice issued to a [*BillingAccountId*](#billingaccountid) MUST be included in a FOCUS dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All costs that appear on any invoice issued to a [*BillingAccountId*](#billingaccountid) MUST be included in  FOCUS *dataset artifact(s)*.
```

Author: ```suggestion
* All costs that appear on any invoice issued to a [*BillingAccountId*](#billingaccountid) MUST be included in one or more FOCUS *dataset artifacts*.
```

* If cost or usage appears on a customer invoice but cannot be expressed using existing FOCUS columns, providers MUST include provider-defined columns (e.g., x_ChargeSubType) to capture the non-FOCUS-defined details needed to support invoice *charges* reconciliation using the FOCUS Cost and Usage dataset artifacts.

> * An invoice issuer MUST reconcile an invoice with its associated FOCUS dataset artifacts before issuing an invoice. The scope of that reconciliation includes (but is not limited to) the following metrics and dimensions: *BilledCost*, *BillingCurrency*, *InvoiceId*, *InvoiceIssuerName*, *BillingAccountId*, *BillingPeriodStart*, and *BillingPeriodEnd*.

Reviewer: I suggest this alternative for the following reasons:

- It conveys the same message, but I think the structure is more suitable for normative requirements.
- The requirement should focus on invoice reconciliation (the process), rather than Invoice Issuer (the actor).

```suggestion
* *Invoice reconciliation* process MUST include (but is not limited to) the following metrics and dimensions: BilledCost, BillingCurrency, InvoiceId, InvoiceIssuerName, BillingAccountId, BillingPeriodStart, and BillingPeriodEnd.
* *Invoice reconciliation* MUST be performed by the invoice issuer before issuing an invoice.
```

Reviewer: I suggest we complement the alternative suggested in [this comment](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1501/files#r2404506735) with an additional requirement.

```suggestion
* *Invoice reconciliation* process MUST be documented by the invoice issuer and accessible to practitioners.
* *Invoice reconciliation* process MUST include (but is not limited to) the following metrics and dimensions: BilledCost, BillingCurrency, InvoiceId, InvoiceIssuerName, BillingAccountId, BillingPeriodStart, and BillingPeriodEnd.
* *Invoice reconciliation* MUST be performed by the invoice issuer before issuing an invoice.
```

Author: ```suggestion
* *Invoice reconciliation* adheres to the following additional requirements:
  * Invoice issuer MUST perform *Invoice reconciliation* between an *invoice* and its associated FOCUS *dataset artifacts* before issuing the invoice.
  * *Invoice reconciliation* process MUST include (but is not limited to) the following metric and dimensions: BilledCost, BillingCurrency, InvoiceId, InvoiceIssuerName, BillingAccountId, BillingPeriodStart, and BillingPeriodEnd.
  * Invoice issuer MUST document which FOCUS dataset columns are included in the *invoice reconciliation* process.
```

> * Values presented on an *issued invoice* MUST match [*BilledCost*](#billedcost) when aggregated by the relevant combination of the following dimensions: *BillingCurrency*, *InvoiceId*, *InvoiceIssuerName*, *BillingAccountId*, *BillingPeriodStart*, and *BillingPeriodEnd*.

Reviewer: I suggest we rephrase this requirement so that it mandates alignment across all dimensions and metrics included in the reconciliation, not just BilledCost.

Author: We can strike this requirement, owing to other requirements in Invoice Handling and a requirement in InvoiceId.
```suggestion
```

> * The data generator MUST notify the customer if the contents of a *dataset artifact* associated with an *issued invoice* are altered after final delivery.

Author: Should we move this to Correction Handling?

Author: ```suggestion
* The data generator MUST notify the customer if the contents of a *dataset artifact* associated with an *issued invoice* are altered after final delivery.
* The *billing period* (i.e., the timeframe from BillingPeriodStart to BillingPeriodEnd) of a charge MUST match the *billing period* of its associated [*InvoiceId*](#invoiceid).
```

## Description

Defines how a *FOCUS dataset* should reflect details for the information presented on an *invoice*.

## Requirements

* All costs that appear on any invoice issued to a [*BillingAccountId*](#billingaccountid) MUST be included in one or more FOCUS *dataset artifacts*.
* If cost or usage appears on a customer invoice but cannot be expressed using existing FOCUS columns, providers MUST include provider-defined columns (e.g., x_ChargeSubType) to capture the non-FOCUS-defined details needed to support invoice *charges* reconciliation using the FOCUS Cost and Usage dataset artifacts.
* *Invoice reconciliation* adheres to the following additional requirements:
  * Invoice issuer MUST perform *Invoice reconciliation* between an *invoice* and its associated FOCUS *dataset artifacts* before issuing the invoice.
  * *Invoice reconciliation* process MUST include (but is not limited to) the following metric and dimensions: BilledCost, BillingCurrency, InvoiceId, InvoiceIssuerName, BillingAccountId, BillingPeriodStart, and BillingPeriodEnd.
  * Invoice issuer MUST document which FOCUS dataset columns are included in the *invoice reconciliation* process.

> * The data generator MUST notify the customer if the contents of a *dataset artifact* associated with an *issued invoice* are altered after final delivery.

Author: Per @ijurica: after final delivery of _what_?

Reviewer: I suggest moving this requirement to Delivery Handling and reformulating it to require updating the corresponding Time Sectors in the associated FOCUS Metadata for every delivery of a dataset artifact.

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Added these two requirements to the Delivery Handling:

* Dataset Instance MUST have delivered *dataset artifacts* accompanied by corresponding [FOCUS Metadata](#metadata).
* Dataset Instance MUST have its mechanism for correlating *dataset artifact* with the corresponding [FOCUS Metadata Schema object](#metadata.schema) documented and accessible to practitioners.
